a routine traffic stop in a small German
city this time police aren't booking
motorists for speeding rather they're
clamping down on people for not wearing
their seat belts
officer Jurgen Ursula has have about 12
tickets in 25 minutes
this man was at the bank this woman at
friends boat traveling short distances
this woman says she usually buckles up
today she was distracted by visiting
grandkids they see before complete the
excuses are many and varied some I'm
smelling infinitely organ Ursula says
it's amazing what people come up with
anything can airbag is protection enough
OS - suits but are they right just how
much protection does an airbag provide
we ask the safety experts at Germany's
Auto Club the ADAC on today's league
League conducts around 550 crash tests
every year he has a strong opinion about
airbags it audio he says it's a total
misconception that airbags can replace
seat belts and airbags is only triggered
by a certain force get s up and I give
this Indust google help off that's
clearly shown in our first crash test at
30 kilometers an hour the impact isn't
hard enough to release the airbag
passengers wearing seatbelts can
probably escape with a few scrapes and
bruises it's a different story for those
who aren't strapped in
clutz giving Irishman's Leia's league
link says without an air bag or seat
belts both driver and passengers are
totally unprotected the head and chest
hit the steering wheel and windshield
the knee and thigh hit the dash
thank God even a collision at slow
speeds can result in a serious injury
and an airbag is no help at all if it
doesn't inflate the police controls show
that motorists disregard the dangers the
psyche beside Solis manion's rocks Ted
says he's shocked by the statistics
around 40% of stop vehicles theory
people who aren't wearing seatbelts
often the drivers or one of their
children Vida fats like fuel Dinah stuck
in the net enjoyed most of those cut
would rather not comment on camera
many feel as though they haven't done
anything wrong
but what happens when an airbag is
activated at a higher speed and it
replaces safety belt here in Opel aster
is being prepared for a collision at 64
kilometres an hour the speed for the
Euro NCAP safety tests the Astra has
passed it with flying colors achieving
the highest safety rating but the tests
were all conducted with fasten seatbelts
what about just an airbag
it's all over in a fraction of a second
as expected the Astra's cockpit holds
firm inside the airbags were triggered
but the passengers are far from okay
just enough info andreas giggling says
they've certainly suffered serious to
critical injuries the lower extremities
heads crashing together the driver's
chest hitting the steering wheel all
life-threatening injuries with them the
head hitting the windshield can cause
extreme neck trauma and when the
accident is over there still contact
between driver and passenger during the
rebound and alone can be fatal to cope
contact Susan Fargo and by Fire Island
air can to listen with an air bag but
without a safety belt the collision was
potentially fatal the same crash test at
64 kilometres an hour has a much
different result when all occupants are
strapped in most likely they'd sustained
only light injuries once a secret
Auckland highest league link says the
difference is like night and day the
seat belt is the number one lifesaver in
combination with an air bag the risks of
injury are even lower because an airbag
disperses the energy but he stresses on
its own and airbag is not sufficient to
protect a driver or passenger Cayenne
fell outside into a cotton so the humble
seat belt can save lives at every speed
especially in city traffic it's the only
insurance against serious harm